# OpenPep

Overview
-------

OpenPep is an open source propellant evaluation program. It works by balcing chemical equations relating to the propellant reactants and products by a method know as "minimization of Gibbs free energy" The ingredients (reactants) defining the propellant are transformed adiabatically and irreversibly to reactions product constituents in the amounts fixed by equilibrium relations, chamber pressure, and mass balance at a reaction temperature fixed by the available energy of reaction. The resulting set of products provides the basis for computation of thermodynamic properties from which performance parameters are determined by an iterative process to account for changing product properties and composition.

Inspiration
-------
The inspiration for this project came from Andrew Reilley openMotor the base of the project uses many of the openMotor classes and structure. Check out openMotor at https://github.com/reilleya/openMotor 

OpenPepEngine
-------
OpenPepEngine is the computational libary that OpenPep uses. This is to seperate the. OpenPepEngine can be found here https://github.com/aushe02/OpenPepEngine

Download
-------
The easiest way to use openMotor is to navigate to the 'releases' sidebar, click 'latest', and download the version for your system. From there, just unzip the file and run it. Alternatively, you can run it from source code to get the latest features. 

Building from Source
--------------------
The program is currently being developed using python 3.8. The dependencies are outlined in `requirements.txt`, the main ones include `PyQt5`, `matplot`, `numpy`, `scipy`, `scikit-fmm`, and `scikit-image`. Because the PyQt5 bindings are used for the GUI, Qt5 must also be installed.

The easiest way to build/run from source code is to clone the repository and install the required dependencies into a virtual enviornment:
```
$ git clone https://github.com/aushe02/OpenPep
$ cd OpenPep
$ python3 -m venv .venv
$ source .venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### UI Files:
OpenPep uses Qt Designer to lay out the GUI, which generates `.ui` files describing the user interface. 
We use `pyuic5` to compile these files into Python source code which is then included in the program as ordinary source code.

Because these autogenerated files are not committed to the source tree, you must build them by running:
```
$ python setup.py build_ui
```
Note that if you make changes to the UI using the `.ui` forms, you must re-build using the same command.

Once everything is set up, you can start OpenPep by running: `python main.py`
###### Note: On some systems, Python 2 and 3 are installed simultaneously, so you may have to specify which version to run when creating the venv. After the venv has been activated, the programs `python` and `pip` are aliased to the python runtime specific for your venv, so use those (instead of `pip3` and `python3`, on e.g. Debian Linux)

Data Files
-----------
OpenPep uses [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML) for data storage. Motor files have the extension `.ric` to differentiate them, but internally they are YAML and can be edited in a text editor if desired. The recommended MIME type for these files is `application/vnd.openmotor+yaml`.

The remaining user information, like propellant data and preferences, is stored in plain YAML files in `<AppData>\Local\openMotor` on Windows, `/Users/<username>/Library/Application Support/openMotor` on Mac OS, and `/home/<username>/.local/share/openMotor` on Linux.

pepcoded.daf Chemical Input File
-----------
To add additional chemicals. Open the pepcoded.daf file and add them to the bottom. See the above section on data files to find where the pepcoded.daf file is located


License
-------
OpenPep is released under the GNU GPL v3 license. The source code is distributed so you can build cool stuff with it, and so you don't have to trust the calculations are being done correctly. Check for yourself (and file an issue ticket!) if you doubt the results.

Contributing
------------
As OpenPep is open source, one of the goals of the project is to have as many eyes on the code as possible. I believe this is the best way to avoid bugs and also the easiest way to get new features added to the software. If you have ideas on how to improve the program or find an error, please open an issue ticket for discussion or file a pull request if possible.
